Welcome to AB testing podcast your modern testing podcast your hosts Alan and Brent will be here to guide you through topics on testing
Leadership agile and anything else that comes to mind now on with the show. Hey, Brett
Yeah, we're gonna do this again another remote because we want to observe the six-foot rule
AB testing podcast
Actually think this is all over we think you and I should continue to observe that
You know not a bad idea not a horrible idea. So how are things going?
How are you adapting?
so
the last episode we did actually was
rather helpful I spent a lot of time sort of thinking through and adapting to what
What sort of things can I learn from Alan who has?
mastered this I
Would say like in my family my son
Adapted pretty quickly
He's 18 and school district says you don't have to do school. I mean that's enough information for him
He works at McDonald's so every morning
We get a hey dad. I'm essential and you're not
Sort of common wait
I I haven't really left the house and I haven't been to a McDonald's in forever
But McDonald's is essential. Yeah, cuz they provide food
No comment. All right, then did you see speaking of school?
Did you see the on April 1st the there was a mocks?
There's a screenshot looked really real of Jay Inslee with the banner below saying
Governor makes the tough call to ask all students to repeat the 2019 2020 school year. I did not
Yeah, that's a that that caused a lot of kids that poop their britches
It's interesting. My daughter is
Checking along. I mean the only issue with my daughter is I think that so she's been doing
Online for a great deal. She goes to private school. So she's not beholden to
Inslee's statement or so Inslee at one point in time basically said all schools are canceled
North Shore School District had online
That's where my son goes. They had online school going within
a week and then the governor's office said
Can't do that unfair to other districts
And so they did some wrangling got that back online that just started this week
but again my daughter private school the only issue there is
She normally had been doing school for like six hours a day, right and right now
Consistently every day at 10. I go. Okay. Are you done with school and
She's like, oh, yeah, I've already turned in on all my homework assignments and everything and so I don't
feel at the moment I'm getting my
ROI of private school
Yeah, so my kids are in public schools, but they both go to a it's called the big-picture school
It's all project-based so they can do a lot of that from home and they're both
I'm what my Alan one second pause
What?
I'm doing a podcast go away. I'm gonna leave that
So it's a project-based school they able to do a lot of their stuff from home
My son is sporadically working on a python project. I help him with a little bit
Making him learn get so I can send him
Pull requests for like I start things for him so he can finish them as a way to kind of get him going and
That's plugging along. My daughter's doing a
She's pretty much done with all her schoolwork
But the point I was getting to is it's a gua. It was going to be where my kids go to school
They were going to be at a school till April 20th and then
Inslee extended that by two weeks. It's probably gonna be longer, but they're going to kick off
remote learning sessions
Beginning the week after their spring break would have been so it's all kicking in. I don't think they're going back to school this year
We'll see what happens
We'll see right I
So first off many things
So first second third fourth and fifth off go ahead right
the you mentioned
Teaching your son Python or working through Python
There is a book. I got my daughter
Ten-year-old daughter called its head first as we both
Played we love that series. I do love the head first series
They have a sick they have a book called learning to code and
I have been doing this for about a month. We do a chapter a week with my daughter
She's she's about to start chapter four and learn about while in for loops
But those on the podcast can't see this
But I got this as a follow-up once my daughter
What he's showing me that it's a mystery it's porn no it's head first Python
Yes, so the learning to code book uses Python as its primary language
Forgot to mention that and then this one is far more in depth
Very very interesting. I will check both of those out and
Yeah, hey
So getting back on to a little bit more COVID then we have some kind of loose topics to discuss today
But I'm curious to talk about what's changed. Maybe I'll start
I'll tell you what's changed for me at work
You talked about me being an expert at working from home and I have more experience
Not necessarily expertise, but what's happened and I can't remember if I mentioned this last time is
It's learning to help everyone else learning to work from home has become a big part of my job and
That means you are a
Work from home coach now to
Apparently and it's some therapy too because I have some employees who
Live by themselves and they're going a little stir-crazy one in a in a apartment about as big as the office
I'm recording this in at home
So they have their own challenges. There are people with roommates who are slowly
learning to loathe their roommates
and and what
impacts them
Separation does make the heart grow fonder what impacts me the most is a lot more meetings on my calendar a
Lot a lot a lot. I have calendar explosion
It's good. I feel like
95% plus of those meetings are actually effective uses of my time just ends up being exhausting. I'm probably in meetings
I didn't count I was thinking of writing a
plugin
Extension to count how many hours and meetings I have a week, but I'm assuming it's somewhere near 40. Yeah, if you had
If you were still at Microsoft and you had
Outlook they have now a new analytics tool plugged in and
So like last Monday
The little plug-in sent me a mail and told me hey
You should look into this your meeting schedule has spiked up in the last week
Oh, yeah, that's that I kind of I can tell I can tell well
So here's the thing that's depressing because it will quantify it and it told me that
98% of my time now is being spent in meetings. I'm like, oh
kill me
The other interesting thing is there's some new meetings on my calendar that I don't always go to but they're interesting
We have regular yoga classes over zoom. I can attend
We have a happy hour every Friday virtual happy hour
Everyone drinks at their home desk and toast each other and chats about whatever little things like that
we have teams with discord servers and
One of my teams has a slack hangout not a slack hangout a Google hangout
they just keep running all day to pop in and out of and at work, you know, they all sit in a
all sit together in a little pod and
They're used to just having chatter with each other while they work and it gives them a way to emulate that
So a lot of things it's it's interesting to watch how people adopt in a company a gazillion times bigger
What's different about other than the media explosion would you I assume you've noticed what else is different? What do you what?
Do you and your team is doing to?
Handle the brave new world
So my experience is different than my reports. It's interesting because the majority of my reports are reporting in
So I have one kid that
He just joined us from college. I call him a kid, but he's he went to a PhD
So he's nearly 30. Yeah, my whole team are kids. It's alright
He's going stir crazy. He's an extrovert and he's like people
Yeah, the the rest of my team primary introverted and they're all reporting. Oh my god
My productivity is through the roof right? I've heard that too. I've heard that for most of my team
Yeah me
I'm as we've talked about many times before I'm introverted
By the way, I I had a meeting this week
We're doing more like get to know each other meetings over over zoom and I'm interrupting you because
one of my
Skip levels spoke up. He's a kid. One of the kids lives by themselves. He said and I'm an INTP
I thought as am I as we all are yes
All right. Go on as a manager, right? You have to compensate, right?
You you you can't follow your instinct to avoid or kill all the people that you were interacting with
Crap, it's against the law. So you you learn
skills to compensate for this and even
how to fake
momentarily
being extroverted
but the meeting schedule is
tiresome
Right. It's it drains your battery really quickly and
You don't get to compensate or balance it out with actually getting stuff done
right, you know
Too much talky not enough Dewey in Prince life. Yeah, I think I've heard that. Yeah, I have
Honestly, and this this won't sustain long term
But for right now I've had to commit that I am just gonna have to spend
Four hours half a day on Saturday doing the stuff that I would normally have done during the week the Dewey part
I do my Dewey on Saturday
So I I do that on the weekends as well. It's essentially
as
My body clock no matter what time I go to bed I get up at I haven't set an alarm clock in forever
If I stay up too late that little aspect of my body clock drives me crazy
So I am very defensive
I need to make sure I go to bed on time because I know I'm getting up at five no matter what
Anyway, the nice thing about that is the majority of my family on weekends will sleep in until 10
like sweet
Actually when I get the work done I have this weird thing where if I
Most days I will wake up five or ten minutes before my alarm no matter what time my alarm set for I
Usually have meetings beginning at 5 30 or 6 in the morning
So I to get up at 5 or 5 30 every morning and I tend to wake up most mornings on my own on the weekends. I will
My body is able to sleep till 7 o'clock, but my family doesn't roll out of bed till about 10
so I have plenty of time after
Taking care of the dog and take the dog for a walk and making some coffee to get a couple solid hours in then
And that works out pretty well. Hormone. Yeah, what's your what are your team's doing at Microsoft to stay connected?
Other than the typical day-to-day meetings
So I have a daily stand-up, right? I did I
Bring that up. I ask how people are coping how I can help
We are doing a more relevant today
with within my managers organization
That should be interesting
So as you know, typically with morale event that there's generally food involved and and some sort of activity
Just bring your own food
No, actually
so
Every member of the team yesterday got a $40 door dash
gift certificate and
We are all to
Schedule our door dashes
Make sure the food is there
by noon and then noon we will be eating and
Playing some sort of game. Oh
Cool cool. We are there's a lot more virtual happy hours going on across teams some games
I've been playing a lot of exploding kittens over the Internet a little bit on board game arena. I just downloaded doom eternal
I'll be playing that all weekend
But a couple questions for you during this time. What book are you reading right now?
Not really much headfirst Dewey
Yeah, so the the closest thing to a book that I've been reading is
this one
Called math riddles for smart kids Brent is where this is why we shouldn't do recordings over zoom cuz Brent
Hold things up to the camera on a podcast. I
Think it's kind of fun. But yes, it's smart riddles for for a math riddles for smart. I like that
I like that. I like that. It's it's basically nothing but story problems
And I sit down with my daughter and we do a couple of them a day. Good. What games are you playing else?
Not playing
anything again, here's what I would say is
Because the meeting schedule has gone way up
My drive if I have free time
I'm getting stuff done because that actually helps my my karmic balance better than
then
Then those other
You know normal relaxed time activities. Yeah, that's true for me as well
I wonder if it has to do a little bit at least with the personality type makes my son and I
Was interesting so
He has a girlfriend. He's going a bit stir-crazy
because of this
can't spend time with them and
He'll go up on Xbox and if his friends aren't there then he'll fall back to his plan Z
Which is oh, let's see if dad wants to do something
So we played a borderlands 3 for a couple hours
four or five days ago
But other than that, I mean there's nothing
Nothing to report on my side
you
Like I told I've been playing Ori and the will of the wisps. I
Kind of get
platformers end up frustrating me after a while
So I bought and downloaded doom eternal as I mentioned earlier last night and I'll be playing that this afternoon and this weekend
That's what doom doom our first person shooters in general was a good way to
Virtually act
On your introverted instincts. Is that true?
Right. Are you making crap in? No in in doom?
You are allowed to kill all the people now. You're killing you're not killing people. You're killing demons
Whatever big difference what's been other than the work stuff we talked about what's been the biggest change for you over the last two weeks
three weeks
finding a rhythm so so I
Am I own babysitting duty up until noon then we hand off to my wife
so finding a rhythm where I can kind of keep my
my day schedule
Sort of normal ish, but incorporating
helping my my daughter
That's been the biggest challenge like right now
So normally around eight twenty and it's eight twenty six right now
Normally around eight twenty. I have to stop whatever meeting. I'm in
Go get my daughter breakfast, but today she's having cereal and I have put it all out on the table
It's self-serve breakfast this morning. Yeah
Having teenagers as painful as it can be is an advantage at this time because they're largely self-sufficient
I have to give them some structure to make sure they get things done and other than that it works out pretty well
Yes, I just went and glanced at the table. It doesn't look like she's up yet
Yeah, oh, okay, I'm sure other stuff will come up but I am going to do a yet another
episode where Alan outsources his job to Brent
attempts to or looks for ideas and I am a big believer in the littuce Pauling quote that I mentioned probably
10,000 times on the podcast
The way to get good ideas is to have a lot of ideas then throw the bad ones away
So I'm always looking for ideas
So you're welcome to send me things if you're listening if you're on the one of the three dot slack comm slack group
You can send them to me there
By the way, we don't have it on our slack
But looks like all the paid versions of slack have got the new slack upgrade. It's very slick
You can now put for those of us that have
Slack teams with lots and lots of channels. You can now organize those channels into folders or groups makes things very nice a
Little more organized. I was worried at first it made slack feel a little bit too much like email
But not too bad that should roll out to those of us mooching off the free version. I'm guessing in the next few weeks
So it's kind of cool
Anyway interesting. Does that mean?
So it's it's it's right. It sounds like
Slack is lighting it. I wonder if they're prioritizing their paid or if they're free just significantly
Outnumbers, they're paid. I'm sure free significantly outnumbers paid. I don't know if they're fighting I think it's been available
We just turned it on
So I don't know I'm not a slack admin on I haven't been contacted
I'm not sure how they're going to do for the paid version to contact an admin first and say hey when do you want this
Turned on for you and they do a little testing and then they say yeah
So anyway, I wanted to mention that because I like it
But give me feedback and the question for Brent and for everyone listening is this
Say for example, you knew someone
Perhaps who's speaking right now who was given the abstract task of
Increasing velocity on
Their engineering team or in their engineering organization
Knowing full well
Actually, this is weird talking on this way. So I have been asked to increase velocity for the team
with both parties knowing full well, there's no blueprint and
Velocity is an abstract term and that it has probably as much perception as it is actual execution
I have my own bag of tricks which has worked for a long time small batch size is probably the easiest one
both for perception and actual throughput
That along with a clear definition of done that focuses on that includes a focus on the customer problem
That's being solved by that work
Those two are my two go-tos
But I know enough to know that those two alone aren't a blueprint. What else should I consider if I wanted to
increase the actual and perceived
velocity or
I'll use the word velocity for now or put another way if you were the designated velocity champion
What sorts of things should you be doing or thinking about?
And I assume
Gaming the numbers is off the table. This isn't Microsoft. We actually do legit work here. Okay, so
You called out velocity versus
perceived velocity
So I can I can how do you think those are measured differently?
It's the communication of the velocity. It's a little bit not necessarily how to lie with statistics or game the numbers but
for example
When we I send I have a couple weekly meetings one with America's one with Europe where I go over
project status across the org
And just just focusing not on these 70 or so projects. We have a flight but just focusing on
the projects that have
some delays or some risk and the purpose of that meeting is
much less so on
The actual delays because they could just send me those in slack. It's
Really about emphasizing our culture of transparency and psychological safety and just learning from each other
I think the primary use of that meeting in my time in the group has moved
from sort of a status check to a meeting that covers that there's really about emphasizing our values as an org our principles and
However, however, however to answer your question. I had to proceed with that afterwards
I send it I send a brief set of notes to the whole org with
completed projects that week delays updates and new projects
One thing I did recently to address perceived
Velocity is I started I used to start the thing off with delays had delays and then completed and then new I did two things
To improve the perception of velocity exact same information one
I put completed at the top instead of delays at the top and
Then and then delayed and then I always have delayed with the reason but now I have delayed along with the mitigation step for that
delay with the idea being that
This is delay because team X was depending on team Y and they're waiting on whatever
Same reason extra sentence. This is being resolved and determine if it's a systemic problem
That should be solved at a higher level or whatever that it's a little bit in the marketing spin of the same information
That's what I mean by perceived
Okay in one way and that can be in a bunch of different ways
So right now if I interpreted that correctly
right that last thing is
your manager
Sounds like he actually reads your status report and I don't know
I mean he does but it's the other people that read it. So I I'm surprised that people actually look at this
It's just meeting notes. I wouldn't even call
Sort of a regularly read and structured email and if it framed delay at the top
You're puzzling through or had validated that
You starting the top of this with delay is
Artificially raising the focus on that that is my hypothesis. Yes. All right
And that's just one example. There's there could be more but I wanted to give you an example
Then if you put completed at the top, then the likely the next thing is is that your manager is going to so
Count the number of bullet items underneath that
Going forward is don't don't assume pointy Herodness
the idea is that I think my hypothesis is that I will improve the perception of velocity by focusing
first on the things that are done and then
Improving the information that goes along with the items that are delayed. All right, so I'm gonna I'm gonna leave the perception thing
aside for a moment because
I'm gonna actually before you do that
The reason I bring up the perception is often in the data we communicate the way this is true across velocity or quality or whatever
we're trying to get across the way we present that requires a little bit of
Spin whether you want to call it marketing or selling but this is common when you're distributing
distributing
Information to a large group when you have to consider your audience and your audience is vast
And well, you know will interpret things in different ways
Maybe I'll put this differently the larger your audience the more
Spin you may have to put on things to get across the the takeaway you want them to get
Yeah, I'm
from a
Sociological point of view sure spin is one thing
But you're the way you're describing the problem. I actually don't view it as
And I don't and honestly, I don't think I think perception is
is
Indicative of a problem with velocity. I don't think we're moving as fast as we can
I don't want to go fast and break things. I want to go fast and break as few things as possible
We'll break them in a very safe way as possible. I think sometimes we over plan
Sometimes we over test and those are the things I want to work on
But at the same time I work on the communication so that but again, there's little pointy Herodness in my boss
But there are leaders and other disciplines who look at this and and don't know quite how to interpret
So I want to communicate to them that
Again, this meeting is about and emphasizing the fact that we are learning organization that were very transparent
I want to emphasize in my communication that we are a learning
Organization for those that may not be as close to the principles as I am
So I think there is some truth to perceptions. I want to manage that but
But yeah, sure sure great
So anytime you're sending a broadcast and set us report type of thing. I tell people it's best to to view it
Almost like a slide deck right? Yes, of course. Do you want to put the
People are if you assume people are only going to spend a max of 10 minutes
Reading it. Yeah, probably less it then you want to want to put the price you want to put the high order bits at the
Top of the email and you want to be succinct? Yes
I think just to move along I think maybe we're focusing a little bit too much on the perception part you asked about it
And I want to give an example. Yeah, probably other ones, but I think I want to move on to the actual
Well engineering velocity and practice soon. Yes, so I'm gonna do that now because previously
So the best way to improve perceived velocity is actually to improve actual velocity. Yes
Yes. Yes. Yes. It makes sure it's
visible
Clearly, right you want you want to get the perception to align with actual so
How do you measure velocity today or do you?
The only thing I use now is lead time. I only look at things at the project level
So I can use lead time, which is a pretty good measure
But what I'm missing is what that doesn't get me. There are some projects for example that
their definition of MVP and my definition of MVP are
Different to some degree
And you know me, you know, I have a very lean definition of MVP
What is the minimum thing we can build that will let us get validated learning?
So on that one, I've had that conversation a million times
that is generally a
Discussion with the team and go MVP is not the new millennial version of the term beta
They're not soon. Yes. Yes, you're right
And what happens is
So lead time is very much a trailing indicator for me. I can tell
Lead time of our projects I can tell how many projects were delivering a month
They're not all the same size, but it's in larger numbers. It makes sense, but it's all trailing indicators
The work I need to do is at the team level
So what I'm thinking of doing is trying to figure out what are some principles
We should apply across our engineering orgs to increase velocity batch size is one
But I'm probably getting too specific. I don't I want you to continue to comment. I'm just gonna steer you a little bit
So I gave you a very long answer to your question that I should have just said I
Know I know throughput at the project level and I know lead time
Yeah
So lead time
Translated to compound is what the the time the the the batch is in development
No, it's from it's from product hypothesis to customer reaction or customer feedback customer validation
Oh, that's cycle time. Oh cycle. Wait. All right
Got it. Well and and to be fair as I've read about this I've seen those terms
not quite interchangeably used but
Flopped and extended a bit. So thanks for clarifying. So this is not just development time. This is
Wait, I've always thought of those backward have I?
Anyway, it's this time like
We want to build this so that includes planning all the way to in the hands of customers
Lead I'm looking at so lead and delivery time often go hand-to-hand
They are the terms invented from the manufacturing
Okay, then I'm gonna go with them
Okay lead is the time that will take to process and prepare material produce and transport it to you the customer
Oh, okay. So lead time in that regard
Yeah
it's
So for example, we're dealing with this all over the place in the world right now
Manufacturing their lead times have gone way down, right?
Are way up?
I guess they've increased right if you need toilet paper
the the lead time to for producing toilet paper is
Has increased it will take longer to get it out to the customer as an aside. I was at the grocery store the other day
They actually had toilet paper. I didn't need it, but I felt obligated to buy one small pack anyway
You're part of the problem
I almost posted on Facebook
Achievement unlocked. I haven't bought toilet paper since this thing
Happened I didn't I honestly I didn't need to but I bought just a small pack
Anyway, alright good for you. Where are we? We're on a lead time tangent. Alright, so here's the thing
That I normally do
Okay, I think you're trying to do it from the top down
Which is the thing that's interesting for me because I'm trying to I normally do it from the bottom up. Okay
I work at the top. I need to go work with the bottom. So I do want to hear this
Theory of constraints right what you need to do is figure out how to apply the theory of
constraints at a useful macro level
Right. You need to identify
the very first thing that you need to do is
Visualize the process
In and obviously something automated is going to be great, but at your level
Like how to do it at the macro level is something I have not ever done
at the at the micro level
Right visualizing bottlenecks is easy. You put together a Kanban board
and you get useful columns going and you put whip in place and
The bot where the bottleneck is becomes really clear
Really fast. So one idea might be
Whatever your macro level thing is
Do you have the power to limit with?
No, I can plant seeds though
So I just talked about how our org works and it's interesting you brought that up because that's been on my mind as well
Maybe last month. We have a monthly get together of all of our leads and I usually take
across the world and I usually take 10 or 15 minutes and present something and
It's usually not very prescriptive, but I'm planting seeds and the thing I talked about in this one was
flow and cues and some lessons learned from Renaissance flow book
It sparked a lot of interest. I use that to segue into a talk on because talked a lot about
Q times I use that to segue into a brief overview about how you and I like to approach Kanban
well, which is really how to use Kanban properly and I the model I used was
People taking the default version of Kanban like the first board you create Kanban board has to do doing done
And I say this isn't really very helpful you and I have quite similar columns
I've used what you have built what you have built. I won't go into mall right now
but logical steps that show flow all the way from
Things that can be done to things that are validated in production. I show
Why you know how that how that works and then I introduced whip which a lot of people using Kanban don't use and
I show how easy it is. Just some quick examples how like I just throw up a Kanban board. Okay, what's the problem here and
Immediately because human brains are fantastic at pattern matching. Everyone knows exactly what the bottlenecks are
It's amazing if you use Kanban and whip properly how powerful that is
not
coincidentally I
Did a query last night of I look a lot at all that our project data
I did a query of
every project that's been completed on time or early in the last since I joined the team in the last 10 months or so and
The delivery owner in charge of those projects all of our projects have a product owner
which is product management and a delivery owner, which is the engineering lead and
Would you believe would you be surprised that?
that
The people at the top of that list are people that I know from talking to them
Use Kanban and whip as part of their project management. I am not
And actually it's interesting. Maybe you have found a clue there. Yeah, there's something there
But here's here's a little bit of my challenge. Let me I need to get a little bit more of our culture
Then go on there. We have a very
We're very proud of our autonomous culture the the directions
We give our engineering leads if you have three jobs you need to manage people you need to be a tech leader
You need to do your own project management
How you do that is up to you
But when you do it you should balance that work is roughly 60% new stuff 20% keeping the business running 20% tech debt and
We give them like in very much in the spirit of oh
Who are the radical leaders guide to radical management the denning?
give people a framework they can work in and then get out of their way and
So I offer tips on
Why they may be using scrum or Kanban and effectively and slowly they get better
But that's kind of where we're at. So people get to choose. We don't prescribe a project management approach. I
Obviously have my preferences but in the way our org works
It wouldn't be fair of me to tell them what to do
I can get them suggestions on what may work better in their context as I work my way around our our
80 different engineering teams however many we have
Yeah
Okay, I get that so
So in addition to this we need to come up with a strategy that doesn't involve command and control
Yeah, and and I should also point out they do listen to me
So if I just sent an email or a slack message or presentation that said
Alan thinks velocity can be improved if we follow these three principles
They'll try them. Oh
So I will I can't prescribe but I've worked myself into a position of
Credibility where if I say stuff it won't be whatever shut up
So that there is that advantage
well
Right, if you were to say the principles
Let me try these right?
CICD obviously
pole and whip
right, I think
the those three principles or those three
acids techniques
thingamabobs
I don't care about the right now
that's the secret sauce of
Kombat to a great deal. I mean be the fourth one is visualize everything. Yes that helps, right?
But if you have a team
So if you initiated if you get teams to initiate whip
And then people are gonna come up with well, hey, I'm idle I can't pick up another ticket because
Whip
What do I do?
Right, then you you guide them towards pulling
right, and then the CICD
the best thing about CICD is
Is it's just fantastic inoculation into the primary?
Flaw with scrum in that is
All the bugs get integrated or get introduced into the product
The
11 p.m. The night before the end of spring demo. Yeah, even our teams using scrum though, however, I'm
90 plus percent of those
Their stuff when it gets to the done column is going into production. They don't really it's a it's a scrummer bond sort of thing
But we have CICD
Across the org that parts there. What we don't have is this idea of whip and I think it does I
think it is leading to
perceived an actual
slowness
so if you have if you have whip in place
then
Then that you need to make sure pull is in place and
and a lot of times when I say the word pull I mean the opposite of push
Not a long thing that you hang electric wires off of
Right so
Whip is really powerful
along with
pull
right
So there's a problem at the individual level
They're motivated
To start the next new shiny thing
Thanks for that
Wow
You'd make an attractive teenage girl. I don't know what you did
Brent's hallucinating. Yeah, Ellen is
somehow
Incorporated
Snapchat into zoom
Shiny things
Sorry tip of the day. Sorry to interrupt. I was goofing off listening to Brent
There's you can go to snap camera snapchat calm and you can get a filter that'll work in your video app
So you can change there's one where you can change yourself to a potato. It's pretty good anyway
anyway, so
once I get whip
Getting whip on a team because whip seems like what you're doing is you're setting up
artificial bottlenecks
And it takes a little while to get people to understand know once once you have the white right
limits in place on your con bun board you should always have exactly
one column that's bottleneck if you have the right what lip limits in place and
It's great because that is Kanban telling you
Hey dive in here
It's it's all about
Creating an effective learning culture if you don't know where your bottleneck is
Start adding whip and cranking it down until something starts to slow
Absolutely, and I can offer this advice to the teams that are using who have chosen who have been nudged properly to use
Kanban as their project management. The second thing is you got you want to
You want to change?
the intrinsic
Motivation of each employee they're motivated to start the next new shiny thing
You want to change that intrinsic motivation to be around?
Closing is more important than starting
Finishing what is in flight is more important than starting something new and
What they what I when I get a team going into that particular rhythm and they successfully change that mindset
You discover something fascinating and that is that they realize they can actually start the new shiny thing faster
by focusing on
closing
Yes, and I feel like we may be pretty good at that
Okay
I think there may be and maybe you have true advice here
We're actually believe it or not getting close to the end of our time is
One thing I've discovered in looking at which projects have been successfully
Delivered and looking across hundreds of projects now
There is a correlation
Between and it's a little different Microsoft with program managers who were a bunch of different hats
but between our product managers our product owners and
Our engineering leaders the better alignment they have between the two of them because they're able to figure out
What exactly is they're building what problem? It's solving what a true MVP is
but the tighter that alignment is the
More velocity their teams have have you noticed anything like that or have any ideas how I could encourage that to work better
When you have
Teams that have a tight alignment. Here's how I phrase it my PM in engineering
Or development let me do that
PM in development they have different roles and
often the the power structure between the two of them is unbalanced and
the
the way I
Frame it is
They're my partner
And what I expect from a partner is that they are is as concerned about my goals as they are
their goals and their goals are
not my goals
Meaning we have we have overlapping so some PMs go
Do your goals are what I tell you to do. Here's the requirements that go do it, right?
That doesn't work though. It does not work, but there are there there are some
Thankfully, it's rare, but there are some PMs that are
Power tripping
So I sit down with my PMs and I go look
This is my definition of a partnership if you want to be my partner. It's not by words
This is what this means means you and I will
Consistently sync up around what my goals are and what your goals are and we're going to have a conversation
That results in both set of goals of being equally cared about by both sides
That is a partnership. Yeah, right and
Why do you have it a pushback? Why do you you want both sets of goals to be like how come you just can't have one set
Of goals between you because the goals are gonna be different
Right, they're gonna have something very PM focused as well on their list
No, the screw that screw that your come your goals together are to solve a customer's problem
That's nice as a t-shirt model
But on any level of drill down
It falls apart pretty quickly every human being has intrinsic goals. They have things that they want to achieve
Hey, let's say you were my PM and hey, you're like, hey, this is the right thing for the customer and
You know what you're really trying for a promotion
Yeah, we we'd right that that's a Microsoft thing
There are always
intrinsic in and extrinsic goals
I believe that people are trying to improve people are trying to grow but
The first thing you do is realize that users come first
How are we gonna solve that problem on the engineering side?
You help figure out what's the minimal amount of work we need to do to validate whether we're solving that problem or not
Agree on that implement it rinse lather repeat
Yeah, so I've definitely come from the engineering management point of view and as you know with my experience like
more often than not
Nowadays I'm more of a I am my own PM right? I already have the lather risk repeat
I know how to get feedback from the customers. I know how to
Use the data
So it's generally not a problem. Yeah, I
Work with no PM's on the teams. I manage. I just want to help the rest the other
240 engineers in the organization be successful
So before we run out of time there's one last
Concept that I wanted to bring up on your other question and that's the identification of waste
Do you have the ability do you understand this concept? Yes, absolutely. This is all over my
presentation I gave a month ago on
lean and writer's and
So if you can identify
So I have a particular style of a retrospective
We definitely do not have time to go through it
where you where you can
Force teams to understand what waste is and
Visualize it in a retrospective
But the more you can make that part of a culture and make each individual realize
Realize on their own that the effort that just spent on it could have been reduced by n number of days
You then get that learning in that pre-thinking done
Going forward
Right. You got to get rid of any sort of semblance of a blame culture
I have no doubt that that's pretty thriving not blame culture
Non-blame culture, I think is thriving at unity based on how you describe it in our org psychological safety is definitely something that both my manager
And I make sure is a top priority. Yes
So once you get through that then getting people
through
trained on at a ground level how to
use a retrospective to identify
sources of
waste
As a way to learn what to do next time because turns out
Very specific causes of waste are very rare. It almost always generalizes
that
That is actually a good brain tickle that last bit you brought up because
I've talked a lot about with my teams around I call them my teams
I consider the whole org sort of dotted line report to me
Whether they do or not, but we talked about
Waste and cues and whip and all these things
but one of the things I haven't planted enough seeds about and I
Talk a lot about planting seeds and leadership and just kind of mentioning things and see who picks up on it
My org is very fertile
They like when I plant seeds they pick them up, but I'm surprised sometimes
Hey, Alan, I tried this thing you mentioned it's working. I thought that wasn't even my main point
But yeah, and I haven't planted enough seeds yet around the power of retrospectives
and
that may be one of the next things I talk about with the team and start planting because that's
That's where the improvement happens. We have a learning culture and most or probably all the teams do retros
But are they effective retros that focus on not just on?
bugs or issues that came up or
Conflicts but make sure those retros include ideas on improving velocity or
identifying waste or cues would be
Right so
Retrospective and
You know said not be a postmortem
It right right and I I don't think they're that but I think I can nudge those to being a way to scale some of this
Knowledge and we are going to spend our next podcast talking quite a bit more about retrospectives whether you know it or not
I just put it in slack. What do you think about that? I think that's fantastic
All right. I will will have forgotten it. All right. I better get going
All right
Alan is now mr. Potato
I have become a potato for Brent and hey, it is good chatting with you glad things are going
Well, please stay healthy and that message goes to
Brent as well as the rest of our listeners
All right. All right. I will see you. Thank you